---
title: 'Component Rocks My Socks Off'
author: ronan
hn: 
date: 2013-03-19

collection: blog
template: post.html
---

As we've moved towards building [static clients combined with APIs](http://devo.ps/blog/2013/01/31/farewell-to-regular-web-development-approaches.html), we felt even more than before the need for a way to properly separate the various parts of our front end applications. We used to be able to drive this process from the backend; a specific feature in the front end would be generated by a specific module within our codebase. Despite its shortcomings, it worked "alright". In the process of separating the client from the backend, we ended up structure our front end code better, mostly using component. package manager and builder

### What is *component*?

Simply put, a component is a self contained collection of HTML, CSS and Javascript. It allows for declaring dependencies on other components and can easily be called from within your front end using a simple `require()` call. component is indeed coming shipped along with RequireJS 

Component are intended to be as lean as possible, focusing on implementing a specific feature and its bare structural requirement. An intentional consequence is that it encourages the re-use of code across components. For example, to implement a simple Popover effect, @visionmedia ( 

### What's new about it?

Alright, let's look at two strong offers available:

- **jQuery plugins**: my main griefs with jQuery plugins (and the list is quite long, believe me) are that they are trying to be catch all, providing endless settings for you to satisfy any use case you may think of. Have a look at a couple slideshow plugins for example and you'll see what I mean. It usually means heavier code, and a lot more rigi when it comes to custozmizing or fine tuning. Secondly, each plugin has its own loading/intergation strategy.
- **Bower**: are basically nothing bad, they simply focus on package management, not really moving the needle when it comes to conceptualizing the way we organize and utilize parts of an app. Basically helps you to download packages. It's way slower than component too.

### A few tips...

Now, we've only been using component for a bit over a month and haven't figured out yet the best pratices for everything, in particular how to align this approach with larger MVC libraries like Bacbkone + Marionette (we're in love with it, mroe to come), but there are few obvious things you may want to look at:

- Our Makefile
watch that bitch
boot module

We intend to follow up with more as we explore further its place in devo.ps and a couple other products, but we see a huge potential for components. The ability to descrbe lean, self contained components which you can update independantly is a huge step forward from anything else we were doing before. Even if you settle for Bower, do it.

There are a few more topics we'd like to explore in a future post; builder.js, proper component...
