---
published: false
category: blog
title: 'Component Rocks My Socks Off'
author: ronan
hn: 

layout: post
---

As we've moved towards building [static clients combined with APIs](http://devo.ps/blog/2013/01/31/farewell-to-regular-web-development-approaches.html), we felt even more than before the need for a way to properly separate the various parts of our front end applications. We used to be able to drive this process from the backend; a specific feature in the front end would be generated by a specific module. Despite its shortcomings, it worked "alright". In the process of separating the client from the backend, we ended up structure our front end code better, mostly using component. package manager and builder

What is component?

Very simply put:

- Allows to manage dependencies,
- Introduce a model for components (isolated bits of HTML/CSS/JS),
- Build process,

One of the very interesting consequence of this approach: re=usability/sharing of code.

How is this different from say jQuery or Bower

jQuery plugins are fucking retarded: they try to encapsulate all kind of crazy use cases most of the time with insane amounts of settings. One size fit them all. Problem is, it comes at a price (heavy, rigid when need to customize).

Component takes another approach: lean features with the bare minimum that is needed. You take care of gluing them together and o

A few tips

Our Makefile
watch that bitch
boot module

We know it fits larger projects (hell TJ is a rochstar and the guys at LearnBoost seem to be using it for everything), but we haven't found the best practice when it comes to make it co-exist to our beloved Marionette.sj (we're suckers for Backbone.js). For now we make it co-exist with regular include approach and have developed custom builder.js to handle our hedge case.